# openpilot glossary

* **issue**: It is to escalate a situation to a more formal level. Before opening a new issue, it is extremely important to search among the already open issues to see if your situation is already known. If so, add your case to the related issue to increase its frequency; remember that repetitive demands receive a higher priority for resource allocation to achieve a solution.
* **route**: Remember, without proof, nothing you say is true. Soo route is a file that contains the history of a driving session. It records data such as the route taken, speed, GPS position, and driving assistance events. This data is used for analysis and system improvement.
* **routeID**: It is the identifier of your route obtained from comma connect and looks like this: `a0e5673b89222047/00000070--604b06efd9`
* **onroad**: It is the state the openpilot enters when ignition is detected, and the camera feed starts to display on the screen.
* **offroad**: It is the state the openpilot stays when the ignition NOT is detected, and the main page stays to display on the screen.
* **segment**: Routes are split into one minute chunks called segments. Example of what the third minute of the route above would look like.`a0e5673b89222047/00000070--604b06efd9/2`
* **bookmark**: When reporting an issue, always include the routeID and specify the exact segment where the situation occurred (remember, it’s like finding a needle in a haystack, and you’ll likely locate it more easily than someone else). To make things easier, there’s a flag in the lower corner of the left sidebar in onroad mode; if you press it immediately after the relevant event, it will help you find the moment in comma connect, as a yellow marker will appear on the route timeline.
* **panda**: It is the "translator" that converts computational language comming from openpilot software into the CAN language that your vehicle's electronical API "speaks" to control the car. IT CAN BE EMBEDDED INTERNALLY IN DEVICES LIKE THE COMMA 2/3/3X, or external, as in the case of EONs, computers and anothers unnoficial development devices.
* **comma 3X**: A device whose purpose is to run the openpilot software and comes with an internal panda CAN-FD capable embedded. It is worth noting that the maintenance of the open-source software 'openpilot' always main targets the current official device sold by comma.ai.
